In this video, I will show you how to make your graphs look nicer by adding labels and titles and so
on to them.
So let me start by creating a new variable x.
This is going to be linearly spaced numbers from minus three to plus 3 in 101 steps and y 101.
Well it gives us one number per Dalmatian if you get that reference.
Okay.
Let's see.
Uh plt dot plot x by x and let's call this y equals x.
And then I'm going to actually just copy and paste paste paste I want to draw x squared.
And here I want to draw x cubed.
And now I also need to update the legend and plt dot legend plt dot show.
Okay.
Very nice.
Now you know this plot doesn't look so bad.
But there's a couple of ways that we can improve how this plot looks.
For one thing, it has no labels and it's nice to have labels in your axes.
So I'm going to add a new function here plt dot x label.
And well you know we don't actually you know it's just made up data.
So we don't know where this comes from.
So I'm going to call this x okay.
So rerun this code.
And now we see a little x appeared over here.
And I'm going to copy and paste change the x to y.
And let's say y equals f of x okay.
So now on the y axis we see y equals f of x.
If you are familiar with LaTeX coding then you can also add dollar signs.
And that is going to print this information in LaTeX.
Now the only change you see here is that it becomes italicized.
But we can this will look better here.
So I'm going to put this into dollar signs.
And now I can use the caret symbol.
This is for the superscripting in LaTeX.
So now we see the label.
Here we have y equals x x star star two.
And here we have y equals.
And you see some more spacing here around the equal sign.
And then you have the three in.
Let me zoom in here just to make sure that that's really crisply clear.
Okay.
So there you go.
Now we see a nice stylized X cubed here.
All right.
So this is one thing we can do.
We can also add a title PLT dot title.
And this is going to be called a really awesome plot with an exclamation point.
So you know that I'm serious I don't really like the whitespace here at the end of the plot and at the
beginning of the plot.
And that's because in theory, these functions can keep going on indefinitely.
So what I would like to do is set the x limit.
So the limit for visualization of the x axis, and I'm going to set that to go from minus three to plus
three.
And notice that I'm actually only providing a single input into this x limb function.
So I'm not providing two inputs corresponding to the lower bound and the upper bound.
Instead this is just one input and it's a list.
And it corresponds to the lower edge and the upper edge.
And actually maybe I'll set this to be one just for demonstration.
So now you see we the plot starts at minus three and it only goes up to one.
Okay.
So I'll change that to three.
But now look what happens if I change this x variable up here.
If I only define this up to two.
Now we get even more white space.
And this is kind of awkward.
So what I'm going to do is instead of hard coding this here, I'm going to soft code this to be the
first element in X and then the last element in x.
So now the x axis limits will adjust automatically according to whatever I specify up here.
So now I can go back to minus three to plus three.
And then you see that that changes in the plot okay.
And then yeah for the there's also of course setting the y limit.
And here you can also make this be dynamic according to the values in the function.
But I will just write minus ten to plus ten okay.
So that does clip off a little bit of the x cubed function here.
But that's okay.
All right.
So not so bad I hope you see the pattern here of how it works.
Um and the syntax.
Now this is a lot to write down, especially because you might have even more of these.
Uh stylizations to implement.
So what I'm going to do now is copy all of this code.
Paste it down here.
I guess we don't need this.
Actually I will add something.
I'm going to write plt dot figure figsize equals ten by three.
Okay, so now I am explicitly creating a figure and setting its figure size.
Notice the size of this figure compared to the default size of this figure.
There's no right or wrong here.
This is just about preferences, personal preferences and what you are trying to illustrate in the plot.
Okay.
And now notice also we don't need any outputs.
In theory this gives an output.
But we don't need to use that here okay.
What I want to do is basically replace these five lines of code with one call to one function.
So I'm going to write plt dot g okay.
So plt for plot the GCA stands for get current axis.
So get current axis.
That is GCA, and the current axis is the axis that you are currently drawing to.
So that's this axis.
It's the only axis that we have here.
Okay.
And then set for setting various parameters.
So now I can write x label equals x like this.
Notice it's kind of the same as this call to x label here but slightly different because here this is
a function.
So I have parentheses here.
This is a parameter.
So I set an equals sign and then y label equals.
And now let me see I'm just going to get rid of all this stuff.
So y equals this and then title equals this.
And let's see x.
Equals this list.
And finally we have y equals this list.
Okay.
So now this is one line of code and it achieves the same result.
Now this is a really long line of code.
In theory there's nothing wrong with this.
But when you have a really long line of code with lots of inputs, it's generally a good idea to incorporate
some spaces into this so that it's just a little bit easier to read.
So here I.
Now you can do this for each optional input, but I am organizing these to have the labels.
Here is the title.
And here are the axis limits.
And we can even add some comments in here.
So specify axis labels.
Uh figure title.
Uh and here I will say the axis limits.
Very nice.
And this also worked out with the with a spacing perfectly, exactly the same length here.
That doesn't always happen like that.
As I mentioned in the first video of this section, Python generates these colors or chooses these colors
automatically based on their built in cycle of colors.
So I don't have to specify these three colors.
All I have to specify is three calls to the plot function.
But what if you want to determine what colors you want to use in the lines?
Now, I've already shown you a little bit how to do this before.
For example, we can make this a red line.
We can force this line to be red.
And what I want to show you now is basically a little bit more about controlling the exact colors that
you can use.
So let's, uh, write some a list of custom colors.
I'm going to write 0.70.30.9.
So this is this should be like this.
Uh, and here I will write hash D6690A.
And then here I'm going to write sky blue like this.
Okay.
So what I have here is a list.
The list is called see you can tell it's a list because it opens and closes with square brackets.
And there are three elements inside the list.
First is another list of also three elements.
And then we have a some text here and some text here.
So what are these three things?
Maybe you've already guessed this corresponds to RGB coordinates.
So this is r g b.
And so this is basically defining a color using red green and blue channels.
Now sometimes when you specify colors you specify colors from 0 to 255.
Here these colors need to be specified between 0 and 1.
So if you have a set of RGB values that are integers between 0 and 255.
You just need to divide them by 255, and that gives you scaled numbers between 0 and 1.
Here I have hex specified color, and here I have just a name for a color that matplotlib recognizes.
Okay.
So now I'll write for I in range length of c.
And now I'm going to create a plot.
It's going to be x by.
Let's do.
How about x plus one.
Actually maybe I'll do like this x plus I.
So I'm just adding some offsets here.
It's just arbitrary stuff.
We just need a line.
Okay.
And then I will write that the color should be equal to c.
So the ith element in c.
And let's see what this looks like.
Okay.
So now we get our three lines.
And you can see the three colors that we have specified here.
So sky blue is this one and this is an orangish color.
And here you can see that this is purple because it's a lot of blue, uh, a moderate amount of red
and very little green.
So that gives us this kind of like lilac purplish color here.
Okay.
And now I'm going to, you know, these lines look a little bit thin.
So I'm going to write line width equals three.
So that is going to make a thicker line.
How about line width equals 13.
That's a little bit too thick.
Uh almost cartoonish I guess.
Cartoonish would be like this.
That's really intense.
How about we do we make the line width.
Uh, how about like, I plus one?
So now you see that the lines are also maybe I'll even do, uh, times two.
So there you see, the lines are successively getting thicker and thicker because the line width is
specified as a function of the looping index variable that I have over here.